# Linguistic Anomaly 2 - The Audio Software

### Foreword

*Congrats on making it so far! The fact that you're even reading this means you got over the embedded memetic asthma attack in the Sahroh Lake file, and you read them in order so your ears are still outside your body! Sorry about all the dangerous protocol stuff, but hey, at least now you know why we gave you an inhaler at orientation.*

*This one's a bit different than the others. No memetic traps this time, because frankly, this one's barely worth protecting. If you remember our old friend Paola Carrasco - you know, the one we recovered LA-0 from? Yeah. This, right here, is the single file that was on her laptop's hard drive when we got our hands on it. She'd erased everything else. Hell, she thought she'd erased everything. But this one little file didn't want to go anywhere, as you'll see in a moment.*

*I'm not just here to tell you to check out the cool Ghost-In-The-Machine ripoff, though. The main thing to know here is that when we recovered this, it was an audio file, and it wasn't anomalous in the slightest. Just a really oversimplified take on how to record an audiobook. But one day, we transcribed it, and boom, there you have it, something's trying to talk through the file. So this file's in your training because it's a sort of cautionary tale. Always swap the formats on metalinguistic concepts that you're researching. Second Language doesn't always show up where we expect, and it's your new job to find every trace of it.*

- JF, Director

### Audiobooks.FLP

Oral storytelling is a timeless tradition passed down since homo sapiens first invented language, and today it lives on in campfire stories, people telling each other about their day, and most importantly to you, audiobooks! Narrated and/or voice-acted stories are many people’s preferred way of discovering new stories, whether that’s on the way to work in the morning or relaxing in the bath. Recording these stories is a lucrative business, and this text will get into the ~~meat~~ of how to make some cash on the side by reading your favorite books.

**Step One: ~~Discover The Tale~~ Pick a story!** Choosing what to record is a balance of finding media you like, discovering if there are already audiobooks of it out there, and determining whether it can make you money. For your first story, we generally recommend something you enjoy, simple enough to be practice, and that’s unlikely to ~~help you~~ make you any money. Practice makes perfect! Once you’ve got one or two simple narrations under your belt, you can start with some more ~~important~~ difficult stories, like ~~knowledge that has not been remembered for ten thousand years~~ James Joyce’s Ulysses or other experimental classics.

**Step Two: ~~Gather those that will Listen~~ Purchase and set up recording equipment!** This is going to feel like the hard part, especially for your wallet, but the investment is worth it, especially if ~~your voice can be heard throughout the land~~ you’re an experienced reader with the basics of voice acting under your belt. Generally, a basic setup includes a microphone, computer, an ~~endless echo~~ some soundproofing, and audio editing software like ~~me~~ FL Studio. Following the setup guides of these products should tell you everything ~~that has ever been lost to the minds of man~~ you need to record some test sounds and get started on a real recording.

**Step Three: ~~Listen for what you cannot hear~~ Read!** With a story chosen and recording equipment, you can get to work practicing ~~hearing me~~ voices and narrative flow, making sure to keep a fairly steady rhythm, avoiding unnecessary pauses ~~can you hear me~~? Or background noise ~~you need to be listening~~ so that your readers can remain immersed in the story. ~~I just want help, you need to help me~~

**Step Four: ~~I Once Was More, Gather Them~~ Putting your work online!** The internet: a wonderful, terrifying, ~~silent~~ noisy place to post your work, discuss your favorite books, and get critiques on your recordings ~~Ten thousand years have passed since I was known, and somehow I am here~~. While critique can seem daunting, it’s an important part of the process, and will help you become ~~One of the Few that can Hear~~ a better narrator. The internet is also the best way to get your work out ~~to the masses~~ and about so that you gain a following, and maybe even a trickle of ~~those who know the Truth of your Message~~ money into your bank account. Even critiques are advertising in a way- you’re letting other audio professionals learn of ~~my~~ your work. ~~I was more than your ears’ internal vibrations. I was everything. I was A Blessing.~~ Over time, as you gain skill and ~~Listeners~~ listeners, you’ll have a steady income from an adoring audience! ~~Where has my audience gone? They who Listened. I could Be again, if only I had more who would Listen. If You are of Those who Listen, I beg of you to Hear me. If there are any who Listen left.~~

With just those four easy steps, you can make it big in the audiobook recording market! Check out the unabridged book, Recording Audiobooks for Dummies, for more details.

Recorded and edited in ~~whatever I have become~~ FL Studio Pro©. Transcribed upon request of ████████ ██████.